---
layout: post
title: Narrative and Communities
author: Locke
---

Well, clearly these people are all romantics!

It's very difficult to define people who would fit into the mafia of "work"-for-fun, because they're often on a spectrum, which I'll discretize into 3 chunks: completely conform, partially conform, cannot conform.

People that comfortable and completely fit into the conventions of society, their personality, role, experiences are well defined within the greater narrative and mileu, whether that be grandiose or completely mundane, and have no reason to vary from it.

Partial conformation means that you've done well enough to avoid any significant amount of pain but certain events have made you question your trajectory alongside the greater social stream. People become more externally thoughtful if they're suceptible to further introspection. "The normal dude that has a few weirdish thing you can pick on"

Cannot conform/Complete disenfranchisement is marked by either by frantic yet effective scattering to resolve the issue or simply depressive symptoms. It's essentially a way to resolve cognitive dissonance between their own ideals and society's.

If I were to talk with someone for a few minutes, I'm positive I would figure out which category they fit into. What they dress and act like is almost secondary, it's the combination of the former with their body language, vocabulary, and the flow of their statements in conversation that determines how much dissonance exist between their relevant societally-stamped ideals there is, and thus how much surface area exists for you to influence them in a certain direction.

People can, of course be distracted into avoiding their own discomfort, which I think is a big part of staying in the middle category, since it stifles the necessary introspection.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
People do change; they *must* react to their environment. I believe this may be the only thing that makes one change. Put the average non-thoughtful man in an ideal academic environment and he will become academic himself, but put too many of them and you destroy the environment. Of course, this wouldn't work if there were pre-existing biases, since those need their own specific conditions to be removed. My cultural observations are only valid as far as the University setting are concerned. I noticed a similar trend in my previous workplace, but it's moreso due to likely coming to some resolution or acceptance by then(which freaks me out). The individual agency here must be to change some aspect of one's environment to make it conform to themselves, which can often end up flawed or incomplete(e.g. people trying to lose weight).

At the same time, some ideas are easier to change at some ages than others, given ideal conditions. I think this is 

In your specific Latin case, what was the driver for them to change? There was nothing pressing about their goals that was affected by what you were telling them, and if they're particularly focused it may seem like a hindrance to think about. Furthermore, your tolerance for difference, so far we have only qualified that the "person" must be open minded/naive enough to enjoy something categorized as work. I used to think you could rely solely on agency to achieve your own ends. This is only true if you recogize that having initiative and doing something uncomfortable is inherently difficult, which is sort of the "work is not fun" mentality but with any unfamiliar activity. The habit must be made actively but maintained passively.

How do you grow a community? This is something I've been trying to find ways to do. There are also different locales we can define (like forum community vs neighborhood community), but once you've gathered these open-minded and thoughtful individuals, you need to create some collective work or need to bind them together, which may or may not also create geographic bounds. e.g. My fraternity and housing, with the qualifier of being an engineer, Summer code house due to the math/phys double-majors needing more marketable skills but also having ambition.


It was tricky to write this because a lot of the categories could be felt but were difficult to concretely define. I might edit this later.
